Day-10
Data Science-built on statistics
pandas-helps reading data,exploring it,understanding data-diff datatypes,distributions,outliners,

Statistics-Analyze data and make conclusions out of it .
Statistics-Descriptive-organize and summarize using numbers & graphs
Inferential-experiment then it will say correct or not .
How many people like blue car in 1L people-we cant go to each person and ask them-so we randomly ask 100/200/sample of people and from this if 20 like in 100 then 20% is descriptive statistic's
margin error 2%

population-raw data-1L
100 becomes sample data here
variable-height,weight of a person
data(singular)-65kg/5'5"
data(plural)
parameter

Types of Data-categorical,Numerical-Discrete-fixed num-grades,Continuous-heigh,weight-they change.
Qualitative,
Quantitative-
-Nomial-cant rank ex:seasons - basically cant compare
Ordinal-we can compare & rank them basically rating of food.

Quantitative-Interval,Ratio

qualitative- Sushma's ,eye color,hair ,--discriptive--categories from my dataset-food,grocery,
quantitative-height,weight-numerical data--no of transactions done in a day
in this again i have to go for nominal,ordinal.

categorical data straight forward-yes/no.
num-find pattern behind
heights/weights of people how it is being distributed-no of quality sold more in any season or time.
Central Tendency--MODE,MEDIAN,MEAN
customers-buying with specific prices-on average recommend 

he bought 10 items with at a range 4,5,6,4,,4,6-- we go with mean
4,5,6,4,5,6,12,18,98,120,2--when we have extreme data outlayers -we usually remove these but if we have to have these then we go with median- it will with sorting so comparatively we get lesser value than mean
mode-no of occurances 
Measure of Dispersion-spread
Range,Variance,Standard Deviation
range is straight forward 113,170 range is 57
Variance-measure of dispersion in data-calculates distance from central tendency to data points . if variance is high -far from central tendency.
Standard Deviation- 
Bell curve-symmetrical if mean=median=mode
asymmetrical-mean <median,mode -basically -skewed to right.
skewed to left is -ve skewed
very less people will fail-so less people on left side

in real time we try to achieve symmetric as it is initially skewed to left or right 

data-falls between min to q3 is normal 
after q3 is considered as outliners.so basically from q3 to max in box .
over fitting will happen if we consider outliners.
EDA-exploratory data analysis -we understand 
RANDOM Variables
sets
complement.
variance- will just tell you 120,8 centeral is at 5 it will tell how much is variance
sd-it will give step size -spread of data points-based on this we gonna consider if we should go with centeral tendency
sd is calculated in same way of variance 
weight sample of 10- 3 with 52,53,54 ,
10
variance talks about outlieners 
in data science we do not use much on inferential - explore tests we perform on this.
excel-statistics-understand how its done.








